# Getting and Cleaning Data Course Project

In my Getting_and_Cleaning_Data_Course_Project repo there are these elements:

1. *Samsung_Data* directory: it contains all the data to be used for the analysis
2. *DATA_SET.txt*: it is the file generated by the *run_analysis.R*
3. *README.md*: it is the current market down explanation file
4. *code_book.md*: file that explains the features of *DATA_SET.txt*
5. *run_analysis.R*: it is the R script that generates the *DATA_SET.txt*

Below I explain the structure of *run_analysis.R.* 

First of all, to run the code, I recommend to set my Github repo directory (after it is downloaded) as the Files Pane Location of R Studio and to click "Set Working Directory --> To Files Pane Location" from Session Tab in RStudio. The subtitles here below are linked to each of the five steps requested for this project: the R script sections follow these five steps. 

I underline that at the top of the R script there is the loading of the dplyr package, mandatory to use some functions. 

## STEP 1. Merges the training and the test sets to create one data set

This section creates the **train** and the **test** dataframes, using the "bind_cols" function to bind the *x*, the *activity* and the *subject* files. After, the train and test dataframes are bind to built ("bind_rows" function) the **data_set** dataframe.    

## STEP 2. Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement

Here are detected the indexes of mean and std columns, after the import of the *features* file. The **data_mean** and **data_std** dataframes are created: they contains only the mean variables data and the std variables data from the data_set dataframe. These dataframes and a datframe with only subject and activity variables are bind together in the **data_frame_mean_std** dataframe. 

## STEP 3. Uses descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set

This section imports the *activity_labels* file and, using a "for" cycle (6 steps, one for each activity) and the "sub" function, it renames the "activity" column values of the data_frame_mean_std dataframe. 

## STEP 4. Appropriately labels the data set with descriptive variable names

Here the mean and std column names of the data_frame_mean_std dataframe are changed using their real name extracted from the features dataframe.

## STEP 5.  From the data set in step 4, creates a second, independent tidy data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject

The final dataset is build with the "group_by" function (groups: subject and activity), the "summarize_all" function (recalling the mean) and the useful "chain" tecnique. The "write.table" function generates the *DATA_SET.txt*.
